Tell me about the types of food that people eat in your country.
How are the eating habits now in your country different from eating habits in the past?
How healthy is your country’s food?
Why do you think different cultures have different table manners?
How may eating habits change in coming decades?
How are education priorities today different from those in the past?
What is your opinion on the way languages are taught in schools?
How can the type of school you go to affect career success?
What changes do you think will happen in the classroom in the near future?
Is water pollution a problem in your country?
What are some of the causes of water pollution?
What can individuals do to try and ensure water is kept clean?
Do you think problems with the cleanliness of water will improve in the future?
How popular is watching television in your country?
Tell me about the types of programme that are generally on television in your country.
Why do people like watching television?
Do you think state or private television is better?
What effects can watching television have on children?
What type of people influence the young in your country?
Why it is important to have role models?
Do you think the education system in your country influences young people’s behavior?
What type of person (parents, teachers, friends etc) are best to influence young people’s behavior?
What do you think young people will be most influenced by it the future?
What types of leisure activities are popular in your country?
Why it is important for people to have time for leisure activities?
Why are some activities more popular than others?
Are the types of leisure activities that are popular today the same as those that were popular when your parents were young?
What types of leisure activities may become more popular in the future?
Is shopping a popular activity in your country
How have shopping habits changed over recent years?
To what extent do you think advertising affects the way people shop?
Do you think shopping habits are likely to change in the future?
What types of sports are popular in your country?
What are the benefits of playing a sport?
Do you think the types of sport that are popular will change in the future?
how can sports bring people from different countries closer together?
How do most people travel long distances in your country?
Have the types of transport people use changed much over the last few decades?
What kinds of improvement have there been in transport in your country in recent years?
Do you think transport is likely to continue to improve in the future?
Let’s talk about your hometown. Where is your hometown?
What do you like about it?
What do you not like about it?
How important is your hometown to you?
Do you think you will continue to live in your hometown?
Let’s move on to talk about accommodation. Tell me about the kind of accommodation you live in?
Does the place you live in have many amenities?
Is there anything you would like to change about the place you live in?
Do you plan to live there for a long time?
What is your country famous for?
Where do you live in your country?
Is it a interesting place to live?
Are you planning to live there in the future?
How is the weather today?
What’s your favourite kind of weather?
Is there any type of weather you really don’t like?
What is the climate like in your country?
Does the weather affect people’s lives in your country?
Do people change in the summer?
Does bad weather ever affect transport in your country?
Do you have a job right now?
Do you enjoy your job?
What responsibilities do you have at work?
What is your typical day like at work?
What would you change about your job?
What job do you think you will be doing in five years?
What skills and qualifications are required for this job?
Have you ever worked before?
What was your first day at work like?
What responsibilities did you have at work?
What was your typical day like at work?
Have you taken any volunteer works?
Why did you do the volunteer works?
Do you know any volunteers?
How do you define volunteer work?
Can you tell me about your hometown?
How has your hometown changed over the years?
Is there any way your hometown could be made better?
Are there good transportation links to your hometown?
What kind of jobs do the people in your hometown do?
Do you have a lot of friends?
Who is your best friend and why?
Who would you most like to be friends with and why?
What kind of person can you make friends with easily?
Which is more important to you, friends or family?
Where is your hometown?
How often do you visit your hometown?
How many people live in your hometown?
What is your hometown famous for?
What’s the oldest part of your hometown?
Who was your favorite teacher in high school?
What’s your favorite subject in high school?
Do you still remember what happened on your first day of high school?
Do you still keep in touch with your friends from high school?
Do you miss your life in high school?
What do you do in your free time?
Do you have a busy social life?
Do you lead an active life?
Has your life changed much in the last year?
What would you like to change about your lifestyle?
Do you work right now?
Do you get on well with your co-workers?
What responsibilities do you have at your work?
Are there good work opportunities in your home country?
How many people are there in your immediate family?
Who do you get on best within your family?
Do you have a large extended family?
What do you do together with your family?
Why is family important to you?
Do you do housework at home?
What kind of housework do you often do?
Did you do housework when you were a child?
Do you think that children should do housework?
Do you like watching TV?
How often do you watch TV?
What kind of TV programmes do you like to watch?
What are the most popular TV shows in your country?
Has the internet affected your viewing habits?
How often do you read?
Do you like reading books? Why?
Do you have many books at home?
Do you prefer to buy books or borrow them?
What are the benefits of reading?
Who do you live with?
What is your favourite room in your home?
How is your home decorated?
Do you like visitors coming to your home?
Do you like watching TV?
What is your favourite TV show now?
What was your favourite show when you were a child?
Do you like watching TV shows from other countries?
Do you live in a house or a flat?
Is it a big place?
How long have you lived there?
What do you like about living there?
Is there a garden in the place you live in?
Do you prefer to hot weather or cold?
Tell me about the weather in your country in different times of the year?
Which time of the year did you enjoy the most when you were the child?
Do you (usually) pay attention to the weather forecasts?
Has the weather changed much in your country in recent years?
Do you like reading books? Why?
What book would you take on a long journey?
How easy is it for you to read books in English?
Have you given up reading a book recently?
What kind of people like reading and what kind of people don’t like reading very much?
Do you like watching advertisements?
Will you buy something because of an advertisement?
How do you feel when you see pop-up ads on the internet?
Do you like funny or serious advertisements?
What makes a good advertisement?
Do you use computers?
What do you use a computer to do?
Did you use computers when you were little?
Do people often use computers these days?
Will people continue to use computers in the future?
Who is your favorite celebrity?
Do you like any foreign celebrities?
Would you want to be a celebrity in the future?
Do you think we should protect famous people’s privacy?
How do celebrities influence their fans in your country?
How often do you go to the cinema?
Are cinema tickets expensive in your country?
What are the advantages of seeing a film at the cinema?
Do you usually watch films alone or with others?
Which actor would you like to play you in a film?
How do you listen to music?
When do you listen to music?
What’s your favorite kind of music?
Is music an important subject at school in your country?
What kinds of music are (most) popular in your country?
What’s your favorite kind of music?
Do you like to listen to live music?
Is live music popular in your country?
Have you ever been to a concert before? Or Have you ever been to a musical performance?
Do you often read newspapers?
Do you prefer to read local news or international news?
Which is more popular where you live, newspapers or magazines?
Do many people today read newspapers?
In the future, do you think more people than today will read magazines, or fewer people?
Do you think newspapers will be very important to you in the future?
Where was the last place you visited on holiday?
Would you like to go back there again?
What kind of tourist destinations do you usually prefer?
Has a foreign visitor ever stayed at your home?
What’s the best way to save money while traveling?
How much time do you spend listening to music every day?
Are your music tastes varied?
What is your favorite song?
Do you like to sing along to your favorite songs?
Are you learning to play a musical instrument at the moment?
How important is the Internet to you?
Do you use the Internet more for work or in your free time?
Do you think you use the Internet too much?
How will the Internet develop in the future?
Are there any negative things about the Internet?
What is your major? Or what was your major?
Did you or do you like it?
Is it a popular major at your university?
If you could change to another major, what would it be?
Would you change it if you had the chance?
Do you like outdoor activities?
What outdoor sports do you like?
How much time do you spend outdoors every week?
What types of outdoor activities are popular in your country?
How often do you use the Internet?
Do you think you use the Internet too much?
What are your favourite websites?
What are the positive and negative things about the Internet?
Do you prefer public transportation or private transportation?
What’s the most popular means of transportation in your hometown?
Is it easy to catch a bus in your country?
Is driving to work popular in your country?
What do you think will become the most popular means of transportation in your country?
Do you like indoor activities?
What indoor activities do you like?
How much time do you spend indoors every week?
What types of indoor activities are popular in your country?
Do you work or study?
What is your major? Or what was your major?
Why did you choose that major?
What is the most difficult part of studying that subject?
Do you plan to use the subject you are studying in the future?
Do you play any sports?
Do you watch sports on TV?
What is the most popular sport in your country?
How do people in your country stay fit?
Is it important for children to play sports?
Do you mind noises?
What types of noise do you come across in your daily life?
Are there any sounds that you like?
Where can you hear loud noises?
Do you think there’s too much noise in modem society?
Are cities becoming noisier?
When do you send gifts?
When was the last time you received a gift?
Have you received a gift you didn’t like?
How do you feel when you receive a gift?
Do people in your country send gifts to show their generosity?
What do you think patience is?
Do you think patience is important?
Do you think you are an patient person?
Have you ever lost your patience?
Are you a polite person?
Who taught you to be polite?
Is it important to be polite?
What do you do if others are not polite to you?
What’s the best season of the whole year?
What do people normally do in that season?
What’s the weather usually like in your country (or, your hometown)?
How is the weather here different from the weather in your home country?
What colors do you like?
What’s the most popular color in your country?
Do you like to wear dark or bright colors?
What’s the difference between men and women’s preference for colors?
Do colors affect your mood?
Do you have a healthy diet?
Do you prefer eating at home or eating out?
Do you like ordering food to be delivered?
Who do you get food delivered with?
Do you eat meals differently now compared to when you were little?
What sort of weather do you like the most?
Would you say the weather in your hometown is suitable for working (or studying)?
Would you like to move to a place with the different weather?
What season (or weather) do you think is most suitable for work and/or study?
What is your favourite item of clothing?
Are there any traditional clothes in your country?
Where do you usually purchase your clothes?
Have you ever bought clothes online?
Who do you usually take photos of?
How do you keep your photos?
Do you keep your photographs on your computer?
Have you framed any of your photos?
Do you prefer to send postcards to people or to send photos that you took yourself?
Do you like art?
Do you think art classes are necessary?
How do you think art classes affect children’s development?
What kind of paintings do people in your country like?
What benefits can you get from painting as a hobby?
Do you like to take photographs?
Do you prefer to take photos yourself or to have other people take photos?
How often do you take photographs?
Do you prefer to take pictures of people or of scenery?
Are there any photos on the walls of your home?
Have you ever taken a ride on a boat?
Do you like traveling by boat?
What are the advantages of travelling by boat?
Do people in your country like to travel by boat?
Will it get more popular in the future?
Do you like bags?
What types of bags do you like?
Do you usually carry a bag (when you go out)?
What types of bags do you use in your everyday life?
What do you put in these bags?
What sorts of bags do women like to buy?
Describe an advertisement that persuaded you to buy a product.You should say
What advertisement it was
Was it shown on TV, radio or newspaper
What was good about that advertisement
Explain why you think that advertisement made the product seem attractive.
Talk about a painting you would like to have in your home.You should say:
what is it
how you know about it
how much it would cost you
and explain why you want to have it in your home.
Talk about a book you are reading now or have read recently. You should say:    
How and why you got it
How long you it took you to read it or how long you have been reading it
What kind of book it is
And say if you would like to read something else similar or not, and why
Talk about a book you have never read but would like to read. You should mention:
How well known it is
Why you would like to read it
Why you have never read it before
And say how you think it will compare to other books you have read
Describe a small business you want to start.You should say:
what business it would be
when you want to start it
why you have not you started it yet
and explain why you want to start this business.
Describe a positive change in your life. You should say:
what the change was about
when it happened
describe details of the change happened
and describe how it affected you later in life.
Describe your favourite city or a city you have visited that you like very much. You should say:
What its name is and where it is
when you visited it.
why you liked it
And the major attractions in this city are
Describe an organization or a company that you know. Please say
How big is it?
Do you find this company to be successful? Why?
What can you say about the working environment there?
Describe an important decision you have made. You should say:
what the decision was
why you made that choice
who helped you make the choice
and explain why the decision was so important.
Describe a useful electronic device you would like to own. You should say:
what it is
how it would help your life
if it would be expensive to buy
and explain why you would like it.
Describe a piece of electronic equipment that you have.You should say:
what it is
what you used it for
how long you have used it
and describe why it is important to you
Describe a piece of electronic equipment that you find useful.You should say:
what it is
how you learned to use it
how long you have had it
and explain why you find this piece of electronic equipment useful.(speaking_2_question_electronic_devices-3.mp3)
Describe an environmental problem or event.You should say:
What it is
Where is it happening
What problems it causes
Describe an exciting experience you’ve had. You should say:
when it was
where you were
what it was
And explain what made this experience especially exciting.
Talk about the last time your whole family got together. You should mention:
Where you met
What you did together
How long you spent together
And say if you would like to do the same thing again soon or not, and why
Describe a family member that you get on well with. You should mention:
What their personality is like
What things they like doing
If they have any strong dislikes
And say why you think you have a good relationship
Describe one of your relatives. You should say:
What that person looks like
What that person’s character is like
What they are doing at the moment
And say which other relative of yours they are most similar to
Describe a famous food from your hometown or country. You should say:
What it looks like
What it tastes like
When and how it is usually eaten
And say why you think it is famous
Describe a friend who has played an important part in your life. You should say:   
How you met this person
How long you have known him or her
The kind of things you do or have done together
And explain why this person has been important in your life
Describe a friend you had in primary school. You should say:
What that person was like
How long you were friends for
What things you did together
And say whether you are still in contact with that person or not, and why
Describe your favorite piece of clothing. You should say:
Where you got it
Do you often wear it
When you wear it
And explain why it is your favorite piece of clothing.
Describe a piece of furniture that you own.You should say:
what it is
where you bought it
how you use it
and explain why you like it.
Describe a present that you gave someone. You should say:
Who you gave it to
Why you decided to give them a present
Why you chose that present
And say how that present compares to other presents you have given that person or other people
Describe your (or your friend's) experience with an illness or injury. You should say:
What it was
When it happened
How you (or your friend) handled it
and say how do you feel about it now.
Describe something healthy you enjoy doing.You should say:
What you do
Where you do it
Who you do it with
and explain why you think doing this is healthy.
Describe a time when you helped someone. You should say
When you helped
How you helped
How you felt after helping
Describe a historical place that you have visited. You should say:
what kind of place it is
where it is located
what the historical significance of the place is
and describe your experience of the place.
Talk about an activity you like doing when you are on holiday. You should say:
Where you usually do it
Who you do it with
Why you enjoy it
And say whether you also enjoyed doing that when you were a child or not, and why
Talk about somewhere you went on holiday. You should say:
How you got there
What activities you did there
Who you went with
And say if you would recommend that holiday to a friend or not, and why
Talk about your dream holiday. You should say:
Where you would like to go
What kind of accommodations you would like
What activities you would like to do
And say if you ever think you will go on a holiday like that or not, and why
Talk about your plans for your next long vacation. You should say:
Where you want to go
Who you want to go there with
What you want to do when you get there
And say how likely you are to do what you have planned, and why
Describe someone who has had an important influence in your life. You should say:
Who the person is
How long you have known him or her
What qualities this person has
and explain why this person has had such an influence on you.
Describe a website that you often use. You should say:
what type of website it is
how you found out about it
what it allows you to do, and why you find it useful.
Talk about one method of learning a foreign language you have used. You should say:
What you did
How long you used this method for
How it compares to other methods of learning a language
And say if you will use that same method in the future or not, and why
Talk about an English language book you have read or used. You should say:       
Why you bought or used that book
What you learned from using it
If it was difficult or easy to use
And say if you would use a similar book again or not, and why
Talk about a language test you have taken. You should say:
Where you took the test
How long it took
What skills and language knowledge you were tested on
And say if you think the test was a good indicator of your language level or not, and why
Describe a time you were late for something. You should say:
when it was
why you were late
how people reacted to you being late
and explain what happened because you were late.
Talk about a leisure activity you did when you were a child. You should say:
How you first became interested in it
How long you did it or have been doing it for
Why you enjoyed doing it
And say if you have become more or less interested in that hobby since you were a child, and why
Describe the most useful household appliance that you have. You should say:
What it is
How it works
How life would be without it
And explain why it is so important to you to you.
Describe an occasion when you forgot something important.You should say:
what you forgot
how important it was
Some possible reasons why you forgot it
Describe what you would do if you received a very large amount of money. You should say:
who you would share it with
what you would buy
what else you would do
and explain how you would feel about getting so much money.
Talk about a musical instrument you would like to be able to play but have never tried. You should say:
What the instrument looks like
What it sounds like
What kinds of people it is popular with
And say if you think you will ever try to play that instrument or not, and why
Describe an interesting piece of news that you have recently read about or heard aboutYou should say:
what the story was
who was involved in the story
where you read or heard about this story
and explain why this news story was interesting to you.
Describe people that you know and believe to be very good parents. You should say:
Who they are
How you met them
Why you think they are good parents
And explain what it requires to be good parents.
Describe the best party you have been to. You should say:
whose party it was
who was there
what happened at the party
and explain what made it so enjoyable.
Talk about a birthday party you can remember well. You should say:
How you celebrated
Who you were with
Why you remember that day
And say how it was different from other birthdays you have had before or since
Describe a typical festival or celebration in your country. You should say:
When it usually happens
What it is celebrating
What people do
And say if that is your favourite celebration or not, and why
Describe your favorite festival or celebration. You should say:
What time of year it is
Why you like it
What you usually do
And say how that festival or celebration compares to others in your country or abroad
Talk about one thing you are going to do next weekend. You should mention:
Where you are going to do it
Who you are going to do it with
Any equipment you need to do it
And say whether you are looking forward to it or not, and why
Talk about one thing you are planning to do after you pass the you think you will do it
Why you want to do it
How long you have had that plan
And say whether there are any other options for what you could do which might be just as good
Talk about a goal or ambition you have. You should say:
When and why you first discovered you had that goal or ambition
What you need to do to make it come true
What your next step needs to be
And say if you think you will achieve that goal or ambition or not, and why
Describe something which is produced in your country, such as a food, a handicraft, or a car.You should say:
what it is
what it is used for
how it is made or produced
and explain why your country produces this thing.
Describe a restaurant or a cafe you often go to. You should say:
Where it is
What it looks like
What kind of services are provided
What kind of food you like there/ What kind of food is famous?
And say why you like it
Describe a traffic rule or law you know about. You should say:
what it is
how you know about it
if you follow this rule or law
and explain why this rule is important.
Describe a rule you had to obey when you were in school. You should say:
what the rule was
if you agreed with the rule
why the rule existed
and what happened if students broke the rule.
Describe a school that you are attending or attended in the past. You should say:
What it looks like from the outside
What it looks like inside
What facilities it has
And say if you think it is a good school building or not, and why
Talk about a subject you would like to study in the future. You should say:
Why you want to study that subject
What things about that subject you find particularly interesting
Where it is possible to study that subject
And say if you think you will start studying it soon or not, and why
Describe an area of science that you are interested in. You should say
What it is
What you can learn from it
When you started become interested in it
And explain how this area of science helps you
Describe a scientific subject that you learned about in high school. You should say:
what subject it was
who taught you this subject
what you learned from it
and explain how this subject helped you in your life.
Describe a shopping street in your hometown. You should say:
What things you can buy there
What the most popular shops are
Any changes there have been over the years
And say if you think shopping there will become more or less popular in the future, and why
Describe a shop in your hometown or the place you are living now. You should say:
Where it is
What it sells
What the advantages of shopping there are
And, if you think it will be popular or not in the future, and why
Describe a problem in your city. You should say:
what it is
how serious it is
what causes this problem
and say what can be done to solve or reduce the effects of this problem.
Talk about a sport you like doing or watching. You should say:
How you first became interested in it
Why you are interested in it
What equipment and skills are needed for it
And say if you think it is an easy sport to do or not, and why
Talk about a sport many people enjoy but you have never tried. You should say:
What equipment is needed for it
What some of the rules are
What kinds of people this sport is popular with
And say if you think you will do this sport in the near future or not, and why
Talk about a sport that interests you but you have never tried. You should say:
Where it is usually played
What kinds of people usually play it
Why it interests you
And say if you think you will ever do this sport or not, and why
Describe the best teacher you have had. You should say:
what subject the teacher taught
when you studied with him or her
what made that person a good teacher
and explain why you think this person was the best teacher you’ve had.
Describe something you own which is very important to you.You should say:
where you got it
how long you have had it
what you use it to do
And explain why it is important to you.
Talk about a traditional product which is very popular in your country. You should say
What the product is
How it is made
Why it is popular
Describe the transportation system in your hometown or the place you are living now. You should say
What kind of transportation there is
Which kind of transportation most people use
What the good points and bad points of the transportation system are
And say if you think most people are happy with the transportation system or not, and why
Talk about one means of transportation that you often use. You should mention:
Where you usually go by that means of transportation
What the advantages of that method of travelling are
What the disadvantages are
And say if you think you will use that means of transport more or less often in the future, and why
Describe a journey you have been on. You should say
Where you went
What kind or kinds of transport you used
How long the journey took
And say whether you think it was easy to take this journey or not, and why
Talk about something tourists like to do in your country. You should say:
How well known the activity is
Why it is popular
What kinds of people like to do it
And say if you think it will become more popular or less popular in the future and why
Talk about a day trip you have been on. You should say:
Where you went
How you travelled
Why you chose to go to that place
And say whether you would like to go back to the same place again or not, and why
Talk about a part of your country you have never been to but would like to visit. You should say:
Why you have never been there before
If or when you think you might go
Why you would like to go
And say how you first became interested in going to that place
Talk about a foreign country you have never been to but would like to visit. You should say:
Why you have never been there before
If or when you think you might go
Why you would like to go
And say how you first became interested in going to that place
Describe a TV programme that you often watch. You should say:
What kind of programme it is
Why you watch it
When and why you first started watching it
And say if you think that programme is better than other TV programmes that are on at the same time or not, and why
Describe a plant, vegetable or crop that you are familiar with. You should say:
Where it grows
Why is it important
What you like or dislike about it
And explain why it is important for your country.
Describe your dream job.You should say:
What kind of things you would do in that job
What the working conditions would be like
What kind of workplace you would work in
And say if you think you will be able to get a job like that or not, and why
Describe your dream workplace.You should say:
What it would look like           
What facilities it would have
Where it would be
And say if you think you will ever work in a place like that or not, and why
Talk about a job you have done or know about.You should say:
What people do in that job
What kind of place they work in
What clothes and equipment they need
And say if you think it is a satisfying job to do or not, and why
Talk about a job someone in your family does.You should say:
How long that person has been doing that job
What the good things about that job are
What the difficulties of doing that job are
And say if you think that person enjoys their job or not, and why
Describe a workplace you have worked in or know about.You should say:
What the building looks like
What is inside the building
What things there are to do in the local area
And say if you think it is a good place to work or not, and why
Describe a job you would like to do in the future.You should say:
How and when you first became interested in that job
What people in that job have to do everyday
What qualifications and experience you need in order to get that job
And say if you think you will be able to get that job or not, and why
What are popular types of advertising in today’s world?
What type of media advertising do you like most?
Do you think advertising influences what people buy?
What factors should be taken into account when making advertisements?
Is advertising really necessary in modern society?
Let’s move on from types of advertising to the impact of advertising on children. How does advertising influence children?
Is there any advertising that can be harmful to children?
How do people in your country feel about art?
Do people in your country prefer music over art?
What are some traditional art forms in your country?
How has art changed in the past few decades in your country?
Let’s move on from art in your country to art education. Do you think children should study art in school?
How can children benefit from learning about art?
Do you think the government should provide support for art and cultural activities?
Do people read more nowadays?
Do you read before going to bed?
In your opinion, how will e-books affect paper books?
What's the difference between films and books?